A woman’s scream wakes me.

I whip my head and—hunh—pain ricochets, a blistering agony. My skin’s been peeled off, my bones scraped clean.

Breathe.

Where’s the pain coming from?

Everywhere.

Move slowly.

Blink. Blink again.

I’m lying down.

The room. I recognize it. Crown molding. Walls painted lemon. A dresser and next to it a vanity, both in matching oak. The heat is oppressive, the air thick as wool. And the smell. Sweet Jesus. It’s turgid and salty, the rank odor of a heaving animal, cornered, at the end of the hunt.

Get out.

I try to move, but my legs are strapped down.

Or paralyzed.

My breath catches—lord please no—and even that tiny movement amplifies the stabbing torment, but (the struggle makes me weep) . . . I can move my toes. At least I think I can. I must see to believe. I raise my head just enough, swallowing against the brown-green waves of nausea, my eyelids flapping to hold the pain at bay.

I cling to consciousness, promising myself that I am me, that I know things.

I’m Joan Harken. I’m a reporter.

My neck trembles with the effort of holding up my head. Triple images condense to double, and then the vertigo passes, and I can see. A leg pokes outside the bed coverings, a slab of white against the blue-and-red quilt.

My leg. Toes wiggling.

I’m not paralyzed.

This smallest sip of relief is immediately swamped by a sudden clarion panic.

Something’s missing.

The missing is crucial, I know this in my scraped-raw bones, but what is it?

My head drops onto the pillow, skin fish-clammy. I must check the contours of my body, locate the absence. I drag my other leg, the one still tucked under the quilt, a few inches to the side, and the scratch of sheets against flesh assures me.

I have two legs.

I struggle my arms out from beneath the blanket, hold them up, study them as if they belong to someone else. They’re unmarked despite the deep ache at their centers. I wave my fingers, a magician about to perform a trick. They work.

I probe my head. It’s tender, logy but unmarked.

Good. I need my head.

A wheeze, a sort of laugh, hikes my chest, but the motion sets cold worms of nausea squirming across my flesh. I must move slowly, or I’ll black out.

Gently, inch by inch, my hands slip beneath the quilt and travel south.

They find my breasts. Swollen and aching. Damp.

Intact.

Except . . . their peculiar pain licks at something, sharp and bloody.

What is it?

Farther south. My hands don’t want to go there, they’re hot with pushback, but a morbid need to know forces them.

They reach my stomach.

It’s soft, quaggy.

Empty.

My baby is no longer inside.

That’s when I understand.

I am the woman screaming.

CHAPTER 1

Minnesota, 1968

“They’re going to love you, Joanie.”

I smile at my fiancé, grab his hand. Pray that he’s right. It’s been so sudden, this move. My editors had passed me over for the promotion. That same day, Dr. King was murdered in Memphis, where he’d traveled to march peacefully for the rights of mostly Negro sanitation workers.

The nation descended into chaos.

In DC, marines guarded the Capitol steps with machine guns while buildings were torched. Baltimore’s protests overwhelmed the National Guard. Paratroopers and artillerymen were called in. Cincinnati fell under siege, and Chicago’s West Side burned. Decades of festering tension, fueled by black poverty and racism and war resistance, exploded to the surface.

Getting mugged had been the final kick.

Let’s move to Lilydale. Deck’s words the night of the mugging were soothing, his face bright. He held me as I cried, releasing me only to clean my wounds. We’ll be sheltered there, safe from the world. Promise. You won’t believe how perfect it is.

I didn’t agree right away, not by a long shot, but then he mentioned preserving his life by avoiding the draft—his dad was the head of the county draft board and had the power to save Deck from Vietnam; he was also mayor of Lilydale, a postcard-perfect town as Deck described it, nestled two and a half hours northwest of Minneapolis—and what could I say?

I’m sitting on one leg as I grip Deck’s hand, perched in the Chevelle’s passenger seat, hurtling toward my new home, a place I’ve never been. My cat is curled on my lap, and with my free hand, I’m caressing the itchy stab wounds through my pantyhose. Leftovers from the mugging. They’re angry red scabs, halfway to healed. They weren’t deep, and if not for them, and for Deck’s reaction, the mugging would have already faded into the shadows of my mind. Why dwell on what you can’t change?

Deck was shocked, though, horrified, swore that strangers didn’t assault women in his hometown. Lilydale was peaceful, friendly. Everyone knew everyone, looked out for one another. The world outside might scream and swirl like a tornado, but Lilydale floated in a bubble, outside of time, as safe as a smile. The town even had a newspaper, Deck said. The Lilydale Gazette. I might finally get my byline.
Yes, I said, finally convinced. Yes, please.

It wasn’t just the byline. After a childhood of moving from one city to another, the idea of settling down with Deck, of belonging, well, it suddenly sounded all right. We packed up our tiny apartment within days, and here we are, humming along the road to a new life. The skyscrapers and stores of Minneapolis almost immediately gave way to lonely swaths of prairie, only the occasional farm to give scale to the emptiness.

I’ve never lived outside a city. Driven through the countryside, to be sure, but never with the intention of making it my home.

The specter of permanence makes the landscape as welcoming as the moon.

I squash that thought, rubbing one of the wounds so hard the scab cracks, leaking crayon-red blood into my pantyhose.

I chose this.

Deck’s tapping his fingers along to “I Can See for Miles.” The radio’s been blotchy the last half an hour, but the music is clear as water now. I wish it weren’t. The Who unsettle me. They’re all sneaky drums and sharp guitar. Particularly this song. It’s too near the bone because I truly can see for miles. There’s not a building in sight, not even a barn, just the forever grass.

“Nowhere to hide,” I say, stroking Slow Henry, the cat purring in my lap.

Deck’s fingers freeze. “What?”

I grin and toss my head, but I’m seeing Frances. My mom. She’s bright-eyed in the memory, years before the cancer fishhooked her. We’re moving, maybe from Seattle to San Francisco? I can’t line them all up. Sometimes we didn’t stay long enough to enroll me in a school.

“I love this,” Mom’s saying as we pull into New Town, its skyline reminding me of a castle rampart.

“Seeing a city for the first time?” I ask. My hair’s in pigtails, so I’m younger than thirteen, the age that annoyance gave way to a warm fizzing when a boy strutted by. That buzz ignited a whole parade of changes. Hair brushed a hundred strokes before bed, until it gleamed, until I was as glossy as a horse, and no way was I going to hide that power in little-girl pigtails. Cheeks pinched and lips licked when I might be seen. My own strut, awkward and unnoticed.

Mom lights a cigarette. The gritty, elegant smell soothes me. Always has.

“Nah,” she says, taking a deep suck. “Not seeing a city.”

I’m studying her profile. I scored her nose. The rest of my features—brown eyes, brown hair, sharp cheekbones—must be from my dad, though I don’t remember what he looked like. I don’t even recall his name, though I bet she’d tell me if I asked. But what’d be the point? I’ve been told he was worthless, a petty criminal, and that was enough.

She blows out the smoke. I lean into it.

“Being in a big city is what I love. Those long, empty stretches of road between? No good. Nowhere to hide. Small towns are even worse. Might as well tattoo a bull’s-eye on your back. Give me tall buildings and a crowd of strangers any day of the week.”

Nowhere to hide.

My mother was given to drama. It grew worse right at the end. I wonder what Deck would have thought of her. We met two weeks after she died. I lean forward to nuzzle my face in Slow Henry’s lush Creamsicle fur. He smells like dust.

“Are we close?” I ask Deck.

“Close as a whisper,” he says, tipping his head toward the windshield. His fingers are tapping again.

I turn down the radio and squint. We passed through the last town ten miles back. It was little more than a cross street with a filling station. Ahead, black sentinel trees have popped up, swallowing the road, a thick forest of pine and oak as out of place as an overnight carnival on this flat plate of earth. There’s a sign, though, a billboard offering big, looping words.

Slow Henry stretches in my lap, gunning his motor. I pet him absentmindedly, struggling to read the message. It takes several moments of tires thrumming on pavement before we’re close enough.

LILYDALE

COME HOME FOREVER

The promise is surrounded by white flowers.

Lilies, of course.

Before I can process the words, we’ve zoomed past the sign and pierced the dark watchman woods, a pop as we push through the skin of my past life, past the trees jutting like swords, and emerge into a new world, bright and solid.

I’m holding my breath, have been since the sign, a child’s game to survive a tunnel.

Hold it ’til the end and make a wish!

I release the breath through my nose, craning to stare behind us. The trees look different on this side. Tire-swing ready. I face front. We’re at Lilydale’s edge. I’m relieved to see it’s significantly larger than the villages we’ve passed through. Houses, clean and tight, immaculate squares of lawn, shops including a real estate office, a barber, a filling station selling unleaded for thirty-two cents a gallon, a clot of kids biking down side streets, lobbing jokes, women in pretty spring frocks strolling in twos, laughing.

It’s everything Deck promised and more.

The rocky knot between my shoulder blades relaxes, finally. I crank down my window and inhale the scent of fresh lilacs.

Slow Henry swats at a lock of my hair stirred by the breeze, and I smile.

It’s a fairy tale, a storybook land. Even the sun seems to be shining brighter.

The prickling worry I’ve nurtured on the drive, the paranoia as the towns grew smaller and the prairie hungrier, it all flows away. Nowhere to hide, my ass. I squeeze Deck’s hand, the other resting on my belly. The baby is barely showing, the tiny swelling easily hidden beneath a loose blouse.

Deck squeezes back. “What is it, darling?”

“I believe I may be the luckiest girl in the world,” I say.

The sun chooses that moment to slide behind the clouds, a gloomy wink, almost as if it hears me.

CHAPTER 2

It’s unsettling how much Deck and his father look alike.

That’s what wallops me when I lay eyes on his parents for the first time.

Deck resembles a crew-cut Jerry Lewis from Three on a Couch enough to get stopped by girls on the street. His dad is nearly a twin other than the gray stippling his hair and the pooching at his belly. A senior Jerry Lewis standing next to his wife. Her brown-silver hair is enormous, a tortoiseshell comb holding the towering haystack in place, two well-chosen tendrils loose, one on each side, curling in front of her ears. She’s wearing a crisp summer dress, one she’s clearly ironed and starched. Her perfection makes me feel filthy in comparison, even from a distance, even from inside a car.

They’re waiting—Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Schmidt—outside a pretty little white craftsman with blue shutters when we pull up. Ronald’s arm is tossed around Barbara’s shoulder. She’s holding a covered Corning Ware dish, a flick of desperation in her wide-set eyes. Our new house is on Mill Street, a short residential lane just off Lilydale’s downtown. The entire avenue is lined with oak and maple trees, a slice of apple pie straight out of the ’50s.

I lick dry lips and smooth my dress, rumpled and covered in cat hair from the drive. Deck I love. Same with the town; I’m going to make myself feel it. Meeting parents, though? Never been my game. I’m having a hard time drawing a full breath.

“You ready, baby?” Deck asks, cranking the car into park.

He’s being thoughtful. He’s so eager to go to his parents that he’s trembling. I’m struck anew by how handsome he is, how uncomplicated his love. I like that about him, that he isn’t slick and quick. It’s a breath of fresh air after the fast-talking guys I’ve been with. Plus, he’s the best damn kisser.

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull
“Ready as rice,” I say, my voice hitching.

He lands a peck on my cheek. “This is your home now, Joanie. And my parents are your family. You can relax and settle down for the first time in your life.”

“Deck, I’m fine,” I say. “Go on. I’m just gonna grab Slow Henry.”

Deck’s out of the car before the sentence leaves my mouth. I pretend to reach down, into the footwell where Slow Henry hopped when the car jerked to a stop, but I’m watching Barbara openly sob as she sets the hot dish on the sidewalk and clamps her arms around her son. Minneapolis is only two and a half hours away. Why haven’t they visited in the nearly year Deck and I have been together?

My cheeks flame as I realize Ronald is watching me watch Barbara, expressionless.

Is the jealousy spelled out on my face? He gets a mother and a father. I duck all the way down, out of sight, making the situation impossibly worse. I should have just waved. All’s fine here! Just a normal person thinking normal thoughts.

I learned that trick in my fifth high school. Always smile. Agree. Be invisible when you can, friendly when they spot you. But then a spike of self-anger surprises me. I’m not that girl anymore. I’m a grown woman. A reporter. I have a fiancé and a baby on the way.

I take a breath. Lift Slow Henry, who doesn’t let anyone but me hold him. Wish I had a drink, just a nip to grind down the edges. It’s not only parents. Meeting new people period has always been difficult. I’m afraid they’ll see right through me, recognize that hiding beneath the prim clothes and proper makeup is a feral girl wearing hand-me-downs, never staying put long enough to make friends, certain everyone knows some trick of getting along that she doesn’t. Rooming with Libby and Ursula in college was the first time in my life I had girlfriends.

Then along came Deck, sweeping me off my feet and, ten months later, out of Minneapolis.

I step out of the car tentatively.

This is not a speed that Ronald acknowledges.

“Our new daughter!” he booms, charging toward me with arms outstretched. It’s a relief that his voice at least is very different from Deck’s. Deck has an ordinary voice, slightly nasal. When Ronald speaks, it sounds like footsteps in gravel. Right before he embraces me, his glance lingers on the faded bruises at my neck and face long enough that I wonder if I’ve forgotten to apply foundation to them. Deck and I agreed that we’d never tell anyone but Ursula about the mugging.

It’s one of the gifts of, once again, moving away from almost everyone I know.

Before I grow too self-conscious, I’m girded by Ronald’s chain-link arms, his menthol scent reminding me of my mom. I’m surprised by the push of tears, which I blink back. The pregnancy is making me moody.

Ronald allows room in the hug for Slow Henry, who I’m cradling.

I’m not used to being held like this and don’t know how long to stay put. My ear is pressed to Ronald’s chest, so I count his heartbeats. They’re strong and steady. I reach fourteen before he releases me and steps back, grinning widely, and indicates his wife.

“This is Barbara.”

I smile at the woman clinging to Deck like she’s afraid he’ll otherwise float away, a precious peach balloon released by mistake and forever.

“So nice to meet you,” I say, pointing at the dish on the ground. “Can I help you with that?”

How they knew exactly when we’d arrive is beyond me. I stifle a funeral giggle at the image of them standing in this spot for hours, Ronald glancing at his silver wristwatch, Barbara gripping her hot dish and wearing that desperate expression.

“Thank you, but I have it,” Barbara says, lips curving shyly. She lets go of Deck—I startle when he stays put, solid, not a balloon after all—to grab the Corning Ware before disappearing inside the house.

The craftsman was Barbara and Ronald’s home for decades. They grew up in Lilydale, bought it when they married, raised Deck here, and then relocated to a small rambler half a block up a few years ago, trying with no luck to rent the craftsman.

When Deck told them we’d be moving to Lilydale, they offered us their first house.

I asked Deck why they’d gone through the trouble of moving to find themselves living on the end of the same street. He said they’d been hoping for years he’d return to Lilydale and had saved his childhood home for him.

Well, they’ve gotten their wish.

I turn to Ronald. “Thank you for letting us stay here.”

“Stay here? It’s your home!” he exclaims.

I suspect he exclaims many things. He’s one of those men. My journalism professor was like that. Owned every room he walked into. All the girls wanted him. He selected a sophomore from Illinois. I would watch her approach him after class, whisper and flirt, a mix of jealousy and awe crackling under my skin. Imagine, being that comfortable with yourself, that sure of the love you’re due.

I excuse myself to check out the new house.

Deck’s old house.

“Dad and I’ll be inside in a minute,” Deck calls to me as I walk away. “I need to dig out my briefcase. Show yourself around.”

His briefcase is behind the driver’s seat. I tucked it there myself and then pointed it out before we left Minneapolis. He must be giving me a chance to settle in before our “helpers” arrive. He warned me before we pulled out of the Cities that there’d be a large welcoming party soon after we showed up.

“Your high school friends?” I’d asked.

His eyes slid sideways. Of course not. They’d be off at war.

Deck has managed to avoid the draft so far, but if we’d stayed in Minneapolis, it would have been only a matter of time. It’s a mercy that the move happened so quickly.

Almost before I had regrets.

I step inside the house. Slow Henry jumps out of my arms with a squawk and sets off to explore. The interior smells musty, like there was water in the basement at one time. The windows are closed. When I lean in to open the nearest, I discover it’s painted shut. Deck’ll have to fix that. I glide from the front den to the kitchen and am childishly excited to spot a newish refrigerator and a dishwasher, in matching avocado! I’ve never lived in a house in my life, always apartments.

“Isn’t the kitchen lovely?” Barbara asks. She’s sliding the dish she’s brought into the oven. “We purchased the new appliances when we moved out. They’ve been waiting for Deck ever since. Please, make yourself at home.”

I smile and continue my tour. Opening doors, I discover a pantry, a dirt basement that I have no intention of ever visiting (show me someone who’s not afraid of dirt basements, and I’ll show you a person not right in the head), and a connection to the dining room. I step into the pantry, running my fingers along the shelves. They hold a generous stock of staples. Flour, sugar, canned carrots and peas. Tucked in the back I discover a half-full bottle of crème de menthe, absinthe-green and sticky.

I can hear Barbara puttering in the kitchen, running water. I unscrew the cap, inhale the syrupy toothpaste smell, and take a swig. The warmth melts into my blood.

Thank you, sweet liquor.

I have no intention of following in my mom’s footsteps (she’d enjoyed a shot of brandy every night before bed when pregnant with me—good for my development and her rest, she’d said), but boy, do I need the courage right now. I take another long pull, swishing it around my teeth, then screw the cap back on, return the bottle to the shelf, and glide into the dining room.

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull
My mood picks up even more when I spot the photos of Deck nailed to the wall, starting with him at age five or six and ending with his high school graduation. I straighten the frame holding an image of him wearing his mortarboard, grinning, and feel my heart swell. Opposite the photos is a lovely built-in sideboard and cabinets, one of them stacked with china. I walk over and rest my cheek against the leaded glass of the cabinet nearest me, soothed by its coolness.

This is my new home.

Minneapolis is my history, Lilydale my present and future.

I am happy, safe.

A shuffling behind me tells me someone has entered the room. I peel away from the cabinet to spot Deck crouched by the dining room table, his back to me. He’s setting down our knickknack box.

Staring at his back, I’m overwhelmed by a love so strong I nearly weep with it.

Ten months ago, Deck introduced himself at the 620 Club, a bar I frequented every Friday night after work with some of the women in the typing pool. It’s located near the Minneapolis Star’s Downtown East offices, and it’s always packed with newspaper people, local sports stars, and businessmen, all vying for a spot at the men’s-only Round Table. That’s where all the real Minneapolis action happens. Deck stood out in that crowd, buttoned up with a buzz cut, not my type at all. In fact, when I first spotted him, I thought Ken Doll and kept looking.

But he made his way over, laid down a line so corny I couldn’t help but laugh (If I could rearrange the alphabet, I’d put U and I together), and bought me a brandy Alexander. He was so adoring, hanging on my every word, that I agreed to meet him for coffee the next morning. We’ve been together ever since. Life’s a gas, right?

“Darling, I love it here,” I say to him, my voice low and husky as I kneel behind him and snake my hands around his waist. “And I’m looking forward to loving you here.”

When he doesn’t respond, I rub his chest, then move one hand suggestively lower. It’s terribly naughty—his mom is in the other room—but the liquor has me feeling loose, and wasn’t Deck the one who told me to relax?

He places his hands over mine, firmly, stands, and turns.

It’s not Deck I’m caressing.

It’s Ronald.

CHAPTER 3

Shame explodes across my skin.

Ronald is saying all the things people are supposed to say in this situation (no harm, could have happened to anyone, I’m so glad—Barbara and I are so glad—that you love it here), but I can only gargle in response. I back away, hands held in front, palms out, until I hit the wall and spin, see the stairs (escape), and run up them, breath ragged. I duck inside the first room I hit and slide to the floor.

Great job, Joan. For your encore, maybe you could walk in on Barbara on the toilet.

My cheeks are hot, probably scarlet. I glance around. Might as well get used to this room, as I’m never leaving it. Looks like the master bedroom. It’s fully wallpapered, the pattern red-and-gold flowers, so loud it hurts my ears. A fresh breeze spooks the curtain, itself a clashing floral pattern.

This must have been Deck’s parents’ bedroom.

If Ronald follows me into here, I might as well commit hari-kari now and get it over with.

When after several calming breaths he doesn’t appear, my shame gives way to anger. Why didn’t he stop me sooner? Before I opened my mouth and reached for his zipper, for God’s sake.

But that’s not fair. He was probably as shocked as me.

My eyes begin itching, and I notice something in this room smells oversweet, like fruit gone bad. I stand and walk to the window, the deep pine-green carpeting swallowing my footsteps. The window is open only an inch, and despite all my strength, I can’t open it any farther. I kneel to gasp at the air like a fish in a bucket.

While the warm May breeze clears my nose, I focus on the house next door. It’s a near copy of this one—a craftsman, only in reverse colors, blue with white shutters. And the bedroom I’m staring into doesn’t have wallpaper but is laid out identically, sheets draped over the furniture.

Huh. Two empty houses next to each other. Probably haunted. I snort. That’s silly. I saw a single poster for Rosemary’s Baby before we left Minneapolis, and now I’m imagining demons and conspiracies in this sweet little town when I’ve just proven myself the most dangerous thing on wheels.

Having arrived not even an hour ago, I’ve already groped the mayor.

You’re just tired from all the packing. Plus, nerves. Settle down already.

A brush at my ankle makes me jump out of my hair.

“Slow Henry!” I scoop him up, chiding myself for being so excitable. “You’re lucky my knife bites are nearly all better, you old codger, or I’d be crying right now.”

The sudden bustle and clamor of voices downstairs tells me the welcoming committee has arrived. I peek inside the other rooms—a spare bedroom, a bathroom, a large linen closet—then pop into the bathroom, finger-combing my hair and pinching my cheeks for color. No point in delaying the inevitable.

If Ronald’s a gentleman, he won’t mention my mortifying mistake.

In fact, I’m going to decide it never happened.

“Come on, you,” I say to Slow Henry.

I toss a parting glance at the house next door, noticing its window is open the exact height as mine. I shiver and squeeze Slow Henry tighter, making my way to the main floor.

The dining room seems to have shrunk, jammed as it is with strangers, all of them eagerly watching me descend, a hungry nest clamoring as its food drops down. My gut grows slimy.

“There she is!” a large man booms from the bottom of the stairs, his voice so loud that Slow Henry yowls and leaps out of my arms. The man is square-jawed, one of the biggest humans I’ve ever seen, the size and build of a grizzly bear. “Ronald and Barbara’s new daughter-in-law!”

“Mr. Brody,” Deck cautions, appearing beside the man.

Before I can figure out the joke, Mr. Brody wraps me in a hug that steals my breath.

“My name’s Clan,” he says, still too loud. “Clan Brody. We live right next door.”

Engulfed in his arms, I think about the empty house I just peeked inside, the one with sheets draped over the furniture. He must mean the other next door.

“You’ll have to tell my wife, Catherine, if you need anything,” he continues. “She’s in charge of Lilydale’s welcoming committee.”

“Nice to meet you,” I murmur into his shirt.

They sure like their hugs in Lilydale.

“Oh, let her go, Clan,” I hear. I’m released to face a woman with a sharp, broad face. She looks familiar.

“I’m Catherine,” she says, holding out her hand.

When I clasp it, I realize she doesn’t look like anyone I know. Rather, she’s a dead ringer for the mother captured in Dorothea Lange’s iconic Depression-era photo, the one of a woman sitting grimly on the edge of a tent, covered with her dirty, tired-looking children. Migrant Mother. That’s the photo’s name.

Clan the Brody Bear and Catherine the Migrant Mother.

“My turn,” I hear.

Catherine releases my hand. Another man moves in to embrace me, but he makes it short, a quick squeeze before stepping back. He’s wearing browline glasses, striking against his tight, narrow face.

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull
“Mr. Schramel,” Deck says respectfully, gripping the man’s hand before turning to the woman with mouse-colored hair standing next to him. “Mrs. Schramel.”

Another casserole, I think, noting her acorn-shaped covered Pyrex dish with a matching acorn-patterned towel wrapped around its bottom and handles. But then I catch myself being ungenerous. It’s a reflex, something I do as protection when I’m overwhelmed. Here I am judging these lovely people—Deck’s family and friends—when they’re bringing me food and welcome.

“Mildred,” she says, ducking her fuzzy brown head.

Browline Schramel and Mildred the Mouse.

It’s what I do to organize the chaos of the world: create characters out of the people I meet and turn those characters into stories. But there are too many new faces coming at me. Browline Schramel and Mildred the Mouse step aside, and I find myself in the arms of a police officer, still in uniform.

“Amory Bauer,” he says, “chief of police. And this is my wife, Rue.”

If I were to pick two people in the crowded den less likely to be a couple, it would be Amory and Rue. She’s tiny and birdlike. Her neck twitches, and her eyes behind her glasses dart everywhere. Amory, however, is a mountain of a man, even larger than Clan in girth but not height. He was handsome once, I can tell from the pale blue of his eyes and the silver streaking his ink-black hair. He’s carrying forty extra pounds, though, most of it inner tubing his stomach. His smile, while dashing, has an arrogant tilt.

My mother never liked police officers. Said they couldn’t be trusted, not one of them.

Amory Mountain and Birdie Rue.

“Last but not least,” Ronald says, pushing a wheelchair to the front of the receiving line. (That’s what this is. A receiving line.) The man in the wheelchair is hunched and trembling.

“Pleased to meet you,” I say, hands stiff at my side. Should I crouch so I’m at his eye level? I hate myself for not knowing how to speak to someone in his condition. I dearly hope I’m not making him uncomfortable.

“Did you hear that, Stanley?” A woman appears next to him, patting his hand, gazing at him lovingly before winking at me. “This is Deck’s girl. She says she’s pleased to meet you.”

Stanley doesn’t make a noise, but he drags his rocking head upward for a moment. A bulbous nose shades thin lips. I think I spot a flash of something smart in his rheumy brown eyes, but the light promptly fades.

The woman holds out her hand. “I’m Dorothy. Dorothy Lily.”

Despite being petite, she carries herself in a way that suggests authority. She’s wearing a smart red pantsuit, the flower-shaped, enameled white locket at her neck her only jewelry. I self-consciously straighten my posture. “Joan. So nice of you to drop by.”

“So nice of you to move in,” she says, her smile distant but warm. “It’s been too long since we had young blood on Mill Street.”

Startled, I glance around the room. The guests are snacking on Ritz crackers and deviled eggs brought by I don’t know who, the men drinking beers like they’ve visited here before. I suppose they have. “You all live on Mill Street?”

She nods, and something slips in her face. It’s gone so quickly that I almost believe I imagined it, like Stanley’s flash of intelligence. “Most of our lives. I tell you what, I wouldn’t mind moving south, at least for the winter, but with Stanley’s condition, travel is out of the question.”

Sad Stanley and Saint Dorothy, the Lovely Lilies of Lilydale.

“I’m so sorry,” I murmur, unsure whether it’s the proper response. “Will you excuse me?”

I suddenly, desperately, want to return to the grungy little one-bedroom Minneapolis apartment Deck and I shared for the last six months. Just me, him, and Slow Henry, tucking into eggs and toast in our kitchen nook, watching Sunday television on our drooping couch, making love like we invented it in our tiny bedroom.

Deck, catching my eye across the space, seems to read my mind. He smiles, his dimples lighting up the room.

I paste on a matching grin. I will make the best of this.

For Deck.

For the baby.

CHAPTER 4

“They really all live on Mill Street?”

Deck’s perched on the edge of our bed, which one of our neighbors set up and made for us, sheets, pillowcases, bedspread and all. (Who makes someone else’s bed?) After meeting what seemed like the whole town, I spent the rest of the afternoon in the kitchen, accepting hot dishes and feeling stunned, like a cricket dropped into a beehive.

I’m exhausted to my core.

“My parents, plus the eight who were here right away,” Deck says.

“Some of the people who came later seemed nervous,” I say, remembering the way the non–Mill Streeters seemed to be staring at Ronald for approval. Come to think of it, the whole welcome party was like some sort of royal gathering, with the highborn first and the commoners allowed after.

Deck chuckles. “Probably because you were hosting the most important families in town. The latecomers were ass-kissers. I didn’t know half of them. They just showed up to get in good with my dad and Amory, mark my word.” He pats the open spot next to him. “Come to bed?”

I drop my nightgown over my shoulders. “I have to brush my teeth first.”

“Isn’t it nice, having a bathroom right off the bedroom?”

“I won’t remember all their names.”

The lie gives me a fizz of pleasure.

The people I’ve met today are locked in my treasure chest, their names my rubies and sapphires. And I finally have space to spin their stories. Clan the Brody Bear hibernates in his cave while Catherine the Migrant Mother hunts to feed her starving children. Browline Schramel and Mildred the Mouse live in someone’s cupboard, like the Borrowers. Amory Mountain and Birdie Rue solve crimes. She’s the brains, he’s the brawn. Sad Stanley and Saint Dorothy, the Lovely Lilies of Lilydale, embark on a romantic adventure, one where they realize Stanley really can walk. They simultaneously inherit a million dollars, which they use to open a wheelchair factory for orphans.

Deck sighs. He doesn’t like this game, but he’ll play it. “You know you never forget a name, Joanie. You’re just tired. You’ll recall my mom and dad, of course. Clan and Catherine Brody live next door. Clan’s employed at Dad’s insurance company, where I’ll be working, too. Teddy Schramel with the glasses is an engineer at the phone company. His wife is Mildred. Amory Bauer is the police chief. His wife’s name escapes me at the moment because I guess I’m tired, too.”

Birdie Rue.

“Stanley’s in the wheelchair. That’s new. He’s a direct descendant of the original founders of Lilydale, you know, practically royalty here back in the day. His wife is Dorothy, and that’s it for the Mill Streeters. The others who showed up live in town, but not on this street.”

I duck into the bathroom and then step out, gripping a toothbrush with a pearl of toothpaste gleaming on it. “But the person who owns the newspaper never dropped by?”

“Joanie, you know I would have told you if he did.”

“It’s just that I need a job, Deck. I have to write.” This is true. If I don’t get all the stories I carry in my head out on paper, they turn on me, like an infected sliver just beneath the skin. I’ve been that way for as long as I can remember.

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull
I return to the bathroom, run water over the toothpaste, and start brushing. Clan the Brody Bear needs insurance to survive the winter, and Catherine the Migrant Mother won’t sell it to him. Browline Schramel and Mildred the Mouse live inside a telephone, one that Browline Schramel is always tinkering with.

“I know you have to write, baby. Come to bed?”

“What did Stanley do before . . . before he retired?” I ask around a mouthful of toothpaste.

“Attorney.”

Sad Stanley earns a million dollars in the case of a lifetime, and he and Saint Dorothy donate the money to crippled children.

I brush all my teeth for another full minute, rinse, spit, wash my toothbrush, drop it into the holder, and pad into our bedroom. “I wish we could fast-forward to being done, being settled in, everyone knowing about the baby,” I say, pulling my thoughts back. “I want to be on the other side of all this, where everyone’s happy.”

He’s suddenly studying the wallpaper as if it’s a love note.

I don’t know why he’s acting uncomfortable, but he is. I change the subject. “Why do you think the house looks empty next door?”

His head jerks, as if I’ve woken him. “The green house? I told you. That’s the Brodys’. Clan and Catherine.”

“No, the other one.” I drift to the window, which someone has closed. I tap the glass, indicating the white-shuttered craftsman on the other side of our driveway. I can see by the shadowy streetlight that the window mirroring ours has also been closed. Guess nobody in this town likes fresh air.

Deck appears behind me, our images a warped version of American Gothic reflected back at us. “That’s Dorothy and Stan’s. I suppose they don’t need the second floor now that Stan’s in that wheelchair.”

I nod, let him wrap his arms around me. He’s nuzzling my hair, whispering how much he loves me, when a face appears in the opposite window. I scream and yank the curtains shut.

“What is it?” Deck asks, releasing me.

“Dorothy,” I say, my heartbeat clobbering my veins. “She was staring at us from that empty room.”

Deck’s brow creases. “You sure? That doesn’t seem right.” He flicks off our bedroom light and returns to the window, pulling the curtain to peek at the edge and then sliding it all the way open. “See? No one there. Probably only your reflection.”

“Maybe,” I say, peering out. Except I still feel the jolt, electric, like I’ve licked a battery. I close the curtains again, with finality.

Then I remember. “Why did Clan Brody call me Ronald and Barbara’s daughter-in-law?”

I’m hoping Deck will explain it away as a poor joke, an overfamiliarity meant to put me at ease. The pained look on his face tells me otherwise.

“You told them we’re married!”

“Eloped,” Deck says, wrapping me in a hug that mimics his father’s from earlier, only smaller. (Not just his father’s hug. All the men embraced me.)

“It’ll make it easier once our baby starts showing,” he’s saying. “Trust me, my parents and their friends are good people, the best, but they’re still in the dark ages on some things. They’d flip if they thought you were pregnant and unmarried.”

He pulls back and grins his charming grin. “Besides, it wasn’t really a lie because we’ll be married soon enough. In the meanwhile, I did what was best. Those bohunks wouldn’t accept a bastard.”

The word is too sharp. “Deck!”

“You know what I mean. It’s only for a bit. As soon as we’re settled, we’ll be married, and think of all the money we’ll save by actually eloping.” He smiles again, wider, hoping I’ll fall for it.

I just might. I want to ask him why we’re not married already, know I should, but I can’t bring myself to do it.

Yet.

Instead, I close my eyes, trying on his words. The two of us, forever joined. I inhale deeply. I can’t envision us with an actual child, have hardly felt pregnant other than that invasive doctor’s visit.

“Doesn’t it feel great to be here, baby?” he asks, kissing my forehead. “Safe, with family? Away from the draft, and the mugging?”

And just like that, he’s awoken the memory I meant to forget.

CHAPTER 5

I’d stopped by the Red Owl grocery near our apartment, full of self-pity because I hadn’t been promoted (hadn’t even been considered, if I’m being honest), with instructions to pick up Tang for Deck.

I grabbed some milk and bread, too, paid for my groceries, and took a shortcut through the alley. The sun was sinking behind clouds, the alley shadowed, but there was no safer city than Minneapolis—I swear to God that’s what I was thinking. The temperature dropped the moment I stepped between the buildings, driving a shudder up my spine.

Someone’s walking on your grave, my mom used to say about such a shiver.

“Excuse me.”

I turned toward the voice, the hairs at the back of my neck vibrating in alarm. The man had appeared from a cross alley. He was disheveled, breathing like he was winded. A rankness, pungent like sour milk, radiated off him.

“Yes?” My pulse grew thick at my wrists, but I wasn’t scared, not yet. It was a few minutes after 5:00 p.m. and still light out. Our apartment was around the corner and a block to the right. There would be other people on the main street. I was jittery only because I’d been thinking of my grave when he popped out.

The man shambled closer.

I covered my nose, discreetly so as not to offend him.

The echo of two people talking, laughing, careened around the corner on the far end of the alley and bounced toward us.

“Do you have a light?” he asked, holding out a pack of cigarettes.

I breathed a sigh. I’d been more scared than I’d admitted. He only wanted help with his smoke. And now that he’d stepped out of the shadows, I could see that he was actually reasonably dressed, average size, his tan suit and porkpie hat several seasons out of style but presentable. He was still panting like he’d run to get here, his hooked nose dripping with exertion or the cooling temperatures. The rotten smell I’d initially associated with him—powdery sour—was surely coming from the nearby garbage bins.

I smiled and set down my grocery bag before tugging my purse off my shoulder. “You’re in luck. I don’t smoke anymore, but my best friend, Ursula, talked me into a quick puff the other day and gave me her lighter—” were the last words out of my mouth before he shoved me against the brick, slamming my head against the wall with such force that shooting lights exploded behind my eyes.

There wasn’t time to scream.

The bone side of his arm pinned my neck, the tip of a wicked-looking hunting knife resting between my eyes. I blinked to make sense of it, to erase the double and triple view until it settled into a single blade. I’d never been attacked before, not so much as slapped.

I tried to swallow, but his arm didn’t allow for it.

None of this made sense.

The echo of laughter on the street seemed to grow closer and then fade.

He leaned in. “I’m going to hurt you.”

No shit, I thought before a crazy idea lit up my brain, a ridiculous image of me telling the editor who’d passed me over for a promotion that I’d finally landed a scoop: my own mugging. But was that what this was? A mugging? I blinked some more, the pain at the back of my skull exploding in red mushroom clouds. My eyelids were the only part of my body that seemed to be working.

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull
I opened my mouth to yell for help. Only an ugly grunt escaped.

He scowled, and I spotted something green between his front teeth. I was too terrified to look into his eyes.

Think. There must be something I can do.

But my head was empty, wiped clean by terror. The blankness endured as he released me and I dropped to the grubby pavement, landing hard on my knees and soiling a new dress, but somehow I was grateful because I could finally breathe, jagged and deep, past the bruised, fragile chicken bones of my throat.

But there was no reprieve. He wrenched my head back, ripping out a clump of hair, and then struck me so hard across the cheek that I was blinded.

That was when I first thought of the baby.

And I resented it.

It was just a flash, the awful emotion—I have to protect two of us and it might cost me my life—so brief that I immediately buried it. My sight returned in silver bursts. I heard a wheezing exhalation and realized it was me. My attacker smacked me again on the other cheek before shifting behind me, his moves quick and certain.

I was on bended knee. I cried out as one ankle was punctured, and then the other. The long, wicked hunting knife. He’s stabbing my ankles. The sharpness of the pain woke me up. I scurried back against the brick, away from him, drew my knees to my chest on instinct, and huddled in the shadow of a rancid-smelling trash bin.

“Take my purse,” I croaked, holding it out. “There’s money in there. I won’t yell. Take it and go. I swear I won’t tell on you.”

I closed my eyes to demonstrate.

I see nothing.

He snatched my purse from my hand.

I whimpered. My eyes spasmed with the force of holding them shut. I promised myself that I would be true to my word, I’d be a good girl, I wouldn’t tell a soul, if only he’d leave me, let me be. But a soft thump at my feet forced my eyes open. My cheeks were already swelling, I could see them in the bottom of my field of vision, and blood made my ankles sticky.

No more than two minutes had passed since I’d left the grocery store.

The hook-nosed man was holding my wallet and had tossed the purse at my feet. His brown felt porkpie hat, even more outdated than his suit, rested on his head, unbothered. I focused on that detail.

“You holler, I’ll kill you.”

I put my hands over my mouth. I say nothing. Except I felt a scream rising, a burning howl that wouldn’t stop once it started. Mom, help me was the shape it took, but she’d been dead for months. I swallowed against it, but it fought back.

“I mean it,” he said. “You count to five hundred, and then you can leave. You tell anyone, I’ll find you. I swear it.”

He walked backward the way I’d entered the alley, toward the Red Owl, threading his way down the narrow walkway. I forced my neck to turn, made myself look away from him, to stare into the side alley he’d appeared from. My eyes grew dry, and still I didn’t blink.

Neither did I count.

I remained motionless, frozen in something like stasis, not wanting to face what’d just happened. The stifled scream was lodged sideways in my throat.

I don’t know how long I would have remained there, stunned and bleeding, if the alley cat hadn’t slunk out from behind a trash bin, rubbing against the unmolested part of my leg, purring.

He was orange and white.

I watched him from a great distance.

He looked soft.

Real.

I scooped him up and ran all the way to my apartment.

Where I found Deck. He held me, cleaned my wounds, promised he’d take me somewhere safe, said I could keep the cat, chuckled when I named him Slow Henry because he’d saved me, but late.

That’s why I agreed to move to Lilydale, to restore the delicate fabric the mugger had shredded, that quivering cloth that made me believe I might not be as whole as other people, but at least I’d be safe in my own body.

I had no choice.

The lemon-yellow room.

My mouth snaps shut, lips sewn, teeth bolted. I do not want anyone to hear my screams, to come running. It wouldn’t be safe. They aren’t safe.

Was it just the one scream, the one that woke me? I close my eyes, measure my breath. Ragged but steady.

Listen.

I do. No floorboard creaks, no footsteps.

Think.

The effort feels like rusty nails dragging through my brain.

I am Joan Harken. I am a reporter. My baby is gone.

I weave something real from those three thoughts, summoning them from the fog, giving them shape and power (I am Joan Harken. I am a reporter. My baby is gone), until they are as solid as the bed I’m lying on.

Whose bed?

Yes, the room. I recognize it. I’ve been here before, inside these bright walls. Slept here? Visited? Remembering this bedroom is vital.

The knowledge is almost there, but when I try to squeeze, it escapes like a slippery silver fish between my fingers. I can’t concentrate enough to hold it, not over the driving primal drumbeat of . . .

I am Joan Harken. I am a reporter. My baby is gone.

It doesn’t make a difference where I am.

I have to save my baby.

I’m overcome by a desperate thirst, and my breasts are so swollen with milk that the flesh threatens to split, and it doesn’t matter because I finally understand what I must do.

I begin to sit up, slowly, but even that small effort is too much. I fall back into the pillow, my world narrowing to a pinhole, one thought echoing down.

Don’t scream this time. You don’t want them to come.

CHAPTER 6

I’m whistling as I look around the sparkling interior of the Schmidt house.

Our house.

In the almost week since we moved to Lilydale, I’ve scoured the interior from top to bottom, with the exception of the dirt basement I still can’t bring myself to enter. The lovely avocado-colored Amana fridge required only a soapy scrub down and a crisp orange box of Arm & Hammer to freshen it up. Once I stripped the horrible flowered contact paper from the oak cupboards and scoured their fronts, they suddenly appeared modern, gleaming against the white countertops. I couldn’t do much with the mustard-yellow linoleum, cracked at the edges and worn in high-traffic areas, but a coat of tangerine paint on the walls and the white lace curtains I discovered in a box in the corner of the attic have brightened the room immeasurably. Plus, the paint killed the musty odor I first noticed upon entering the house.

I also bought a can of paint remover at the downtown Ace Hardware and discovered, to my boundless delight, glorious maple crown molding in the dining room beneath the rust-colored paint that has covered it since the ’40s, according to Deck. He encourages my puttering. I love that he doesn’t mind me overhauling his childhood home, though he drew the line at me removing the hideous red-and-gold wallpaper in our bedroom.

He’ll come around.

In the meantime, I have plenty enough work to do chiseling through the paint sealing the windows shut and airing out the upstairs. I wouldn’t mind a full bathroom on the second floor—ours has only a sink and toilet—and once I’m working full-time at the newspaper, we should be able to afford it.

When I mention this to Deck, he frowns. “But you’re working constantly,” he says, indicating the dining room, which does look beautiful with the newly revealed crown molding.

His expression throws me off. I take his hand across the table, fumbling to explain something I assumed was a given. “When we decided to move here, you said I’d be able to work at the paper. I was full-time when we lived in Minneapolis.”

Read Daily Updated Light Novel, Web Novel, Chinese Novel, Japanese And Korean Novel Online: NovelFull